Full Stack deployment


01.
What is the primary goal of UX design?

Making the interface visually appealing
Maximizing server performance
Improving user satisfaction and usability
Enhancing backend security





02.
What is the primary purpose of integrating backend APIs in a full-stack application?

Enhancing the user interface
Managing client-side state
Enabling communication between frontend and backend
Implementing design patterns





03 
Which of the following is typically responsible for handling client-side routing in a single-page application (SPA)?

Server
Database
Browser
API





04 
Which of the following is NOT a primary goal of good Ul design?

Aesthetics and Visual Appeal
Consistency and Familiarity
Complexity and Confusion
Usability and User Efficiency





05.]]]
In a backend framework like Express.js, how can you define a route that handles both GET and POST requests for the "/users" path?

app.route('/users', 'GET', 'POST', ...)
app.get('/users', ...).
app.route('/users').get(...).post(...)
app.handle('/users', …)





06.
What does the term "UI" stand for in Ul design?

User Interaction
User Interface
User Integration
User Interpretation




07.]]]
Which of the following is NOT a common format for data exchange between frontend and backend in API requests and responses?

JSON
XML
YAML
HTML




08.
What does "Responsive Design" refer to in UX?

A design that responds to user feedback quickly
Designing interfaces for various screen sizes and devices
Designing interfaces that change color based on user preferences
Creating designs that load quickly on slow internet connections





09.
What is the primary purpose of a state management library like Redux?

To manage the routing of an application.
To handle asynchronous operations in an application.
To centralize and manage the state of an application.
To improve the performance of database queries.






10.
What is routing in the context of web development?

Styling the user interface
Managing data storage
Navigating between different pages or views
Handling server-side logic






Answer

01.
Improving user satisfaction and usability

The primary goal of UX design is to create user-centric interfaces that enhance user satisfaction and usability, making it easier and more enjoyable for users to interact with a product or service.





02.
Enabling communication between frontend and backend

Integrating backend APIs allows the frontend and backend of an application to communicate and exchange data, enabling the frontend to request and receive information from the backend.




03.
Browser

In a single-page application (SPA), client- side routing is managed by the browser using JavaScript. The browser updates the URL and dynamically loads content without requiring a full page refresh.




04.
Complexity and Confusion

Good Ul design aims to simplify the user experience and reduce complexity, not increase it. Complexity and confusion are contrary to the principles of good Ul design.




05.]]]
app.route('/users').get(...).post(...)

In Express.js, you can use the app.route() method to define multiple route handlers for a single path. The .get(...) and .post(...) methods can be chained to define handlers for GET and POST requests, respectively.



06.
User Interface

Ul stands for User Interface. It refers to the graphical layout, visual elements, and overall design of a software application that users interact with.




07.]]]
HTML

While HTML is a markup language used for rendering web content in browsers, JSON, XML, and YAML are commonly used formats for data exchange between frontend and backend in API communication.




08.
Designing interfaces for various screen sizes and devices

Responsive design refers to the practice of designing interfaces that adapt and respond effectively to different screen sizes and devices, providing a consistent and optimal user experience across platforms.




09.
To centralize and manage the state of an application.

Redux is a state management library that centralizes the application's state and provides a predictable way to manage and update that state throughout the application.




10.
Navigating between different pages or views

Routing refers to the process of determining which component or view should be displayed when a user clicks on a link or enters a specific URL. It allows for navigation between different parts of a web application without the need to refresh the entire page.





